Visual Code Studio - Extensions - Ruby (#150)
rootstrap/blog: content/My favorite extensions for programming Ruby in Visual Studio Code.md

> # Choosing a text editor

Reviewer: I think maybe all this `#` you have should be `##` like subtitles and you should have one main title `My favorite Visual Studio Code extension for Ruby language` or something like that. WDYT? Because I felt like I started already with a `Choosing a text editor` subtitle and no title for the article.

Reviewer 2: Seems like this is the actual title of the post, right ?

Maybe it should be what Manu suggested or similar:

```
# My favorite Visual Studio Code extensions for Ruby
```

> It may be a tough decision, as a programmer, the text editor that you choose will be your main tool to do your work, and you will use it every day in your work-life.

Reviewer: `It may be a tough decision, as a programmer, to choose a text editor, since it will be your main tool to do your work, and you will use it every day in your work-life.`

Maybe something like this? Because I feel you were trying to say that is a tough decision to choose a text editor but you actually say something is a tough decision (don't know what) and explain why a text editor is important.

> Everybody has their favorite text editor, in my life I have known people who use **Vim, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Atom**, and many others.

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove `in my life` in this line... sounds better I think.

> I tried different text editors in my career, always looking for a perfect one -- at first I started with SublimeText, later the pretty UI of Atom hook me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I tried different text editors in my career, always looking for a perfect one. At first, I started with Sublime Text, later the pretty UI of Atom hook me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.
```

> I tried different text editors in my career, always looking for a perfect one -- at first I started with SublimeText, later the pretty UI of Atom hook me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.

Reviewer 2: Some other comments about this line, adding to what manu suggested:

```suggestion
I tried different text editors in my career, always looking for the perfect one. At first, I started with Sublime Text, later the pretty UI of Atom hooked me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.
```

I was enjoying Atom, but in some cases, my computer at the time couldn't handle it very well and it was getting a bit laggy to open the text editor or work with it. So a friend of mine told me that maybe Visual Studio Code could fit my needs, and he was right.

> # I use Visual Studio Code too! Tell me about the extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# I use Visual Studio Code too! Tell me about its extensions
```

WDYT?

## [GitLens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens)

> This extension includes a lot of cool functionalities of Git in Visual Studio Code "GitLens simply helps you **better understand code**" says Eric Amodio, the creator of the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension includes a lot of cool functionalities of Git in Visual Studio Code: "`GitLens` simply helps you **better understand code**" says Eric Amodio, the creator of the extension.
```

> I love Gitlens because it permits me to detect who wrote the code that I am reading, this is really useful because when I have doubts about the code, I know who to talk to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I love Gitlens because it allows me to detect who wrote the code that I am reading, and this is really useful because when I have doubts about the code I know who to talk to.
```

**Features:**

- An unobtrusive current line blame annotation at the end of the line with detailed blame information accessible via hovers
- Authorship code lens showing the most recent commit and # of authors to the top of files and/or on code blocks
- A status bar blame annotation showing author and date for the current line
- On-demand gutter blame annotations, including a heatmap, for the whole file

> - On-demand gutter heatmap annotations to show how recently lines were changed, relative to all the other changes in the file and to now (hot vs. cold)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On-demand gutter heatmap annotations to show how recently lines were changed, relative to all the other changes in the file up? to now (hot vs. cold)
```
I'm not sure here, but I feel is `and up to now` or just `up to now` without `and`.

- On-demand recent changes annotations to highlight lines changed by the most recent commit

> - An much [more](https://gitlens.amod.io/#features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- And much [more](https://gitlens.amod.io/#features).
```
I know you didn't missed the `d`, you said `An` like in the first one, but for this one, I think it looks weird to say `An much more`

![Gitlens](images/gitlens-preview.gif)

## [Ruby](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rebornix.Ruby)

> This extension provides enhanced Ruby language and debugging support, one of the coolest things about this extension is the syntax support to our ruby files, is a **must-have** if you are a Ruby developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension provides enhanced Ruby language and debugging support. One of the coolest things about this extension is the syntax support to our ruby files, is a **must-have** if you are a Ruby developer.
```

**Features:**

- Automatic Ruby environment detection with support for rvm, rbenv, chruby, and asdf
- Lint support via RuboCop, Standard, and Reek
- Format support via RuboCop, Standard, Rufo, and RubyFMT
- Semantic code folding support
- Semantic highlighting support
- Basic Intellisense support

![VSCode Ruby](images/vsrubycode.png)

## [Ruby Solargraph](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=castwide.solargraph)

> Another **must-have** extension if you are a Ruby developer, gives Visual Studio Code some features that can be found in IDE's like "Go to definition" for classes, modules, and methods. Also provides documentation and code completion. If you are learning Ruby, this extension will help you a lot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another **must-have** extension if you are a Ruby developer, which gives Visual Studio Code some features that can be found in IDE's like "Go to definition" for classes, modules, and methods. Also provides documentation and code completion. If you are learning Ruby, this extension will help you a lot.
```

**Features:**

- Context-aware suggestions and documentation for the Ruby core
- Detection of some variable types and method return values (e.g., String.new. returns String instance methods)
- Identification of local, class, and instance variables within the current scope
- Find references and rename symbols (experimental as of solargraph gem v0.22.0)
- Support for gems
- Near-complete support for the Ruby core and stdlib
- Partial support for Ruby on Rails

![Ruby Solargraph](images/rubysolargraph.gif)

## [ruby-rubocop](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=misogi.ruby-rubocop)

> Having rubocop configured in our ruby project will help us to maintain the quality of the code, especially if our project is being developed by a team. This extension will let us autoformat and correct our code basing it the directives written in the .rubucop.yml file. With only a key shortcut your code will be formatted in a second, is fast, is good, is a **must-have** extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having rubocop configured in your ruby project will help you to maintain the quality of the code, especially if your project is being developed by a team. This extension will let you autoformat and correct your code basing it the directives written in the .rubucop.yml file. With only a key shortcut your code will be formatted in a second, is fast, is good, is a **must-have** extension.
```

You were talking in `you` and not `us` so I think like this would keep consistency.

Reviewer 2: `RuboCop`

Reviewer 2: Maybe `must-have` is being used a lot haha. You could also use `essential`, `vital`, or something like that.

**Features:**

- Lint by executing the command "Ruby: lint by rubocop" (cmd+shift+p and type command)
- Auto invoke when saving file
- Auto correct command "Ruby: autocorrect by rubocop"

![Ruby Solargraph](images/rubyrubocop.gif)

## [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)

> This extension will help us to format the code of Javascript, HTML, CSS, JSON, and many more files. Is simple and quick, but is not so much configurable like other code-formatter extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension will help you to format the code of Javascript, HTML, CSS, JSON, and many more files. Is simple and quick, but is not so much configurable like other code-formatter extensions.
```

same comment here

Reviewer 2: I would say `is not as configurable as others...`

**Features:**

- Supports many languages
- You press save and code is formatted
- No need to discuss style in code review
- Saves you time and energy

## [VSCode Great Icons](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons)

> A very simple one, adds icons to our files, it personally helps me a lot to know instantly which kind of file I'm seeing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A very simple one, adds icons to your files and it personally helps me a lot to know instantly which kind of file I'm seeing.
```

![VSCode Great Icons](images/vscodegreaticons.jpg)

# I&#39;ve been using atom and now I switched to Visual Studio Code, I&#39;m a bit lost

I fully understand you, I miss so much the Atom shortcut keymap when I made the switch, but here is your salvation.

## [Atom Keymap](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.atom-keybindings)

> This extension ports popular Atom keyboard shortcuts to Visual Studio Code helps you a lot to make easier the switch between the code editors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension ports popular Atom keyboard shortcuts to Visual Studio Code and helps a lot making easier the switch between both code editors.
```

## [Atom One Dark Theme](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=akamud.vscode-theme-onedark)

And the last extension that I will share with you is an aesthetic one, when I started using Visual Studio Code I missed the theme that Atom has, so this extension fix that problem for me.

# Conclusion

> Those are my favorite extension for Visual Studio Code at the moment that I'm writing this, I hope that they help you to improve your experience using this famous code editor, comment below this article if you have any other extensions recommendation!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are my favorite extension for Visual Studio Code at the moment that I'm writing this. I hope that they help you to improve your experience using this famous code editor and please feel free to comment below this article if you have any other extensions recommendation!
```

`please feel free` totally optional, I just thought it looks nice 😄

> Those are my favorite extension for Visual Studio Code at the moment that I'm writing this, I hope that they help you to improve your experience using this famous code editor, comment below this article if you have any other extensions recommendation!

Reviewer 3: I like the part about the comments, it helps with readers engagement 👏

Reviewer: yes!! I thought the same!

> # Choosing a text editor for Ruby

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Choosing a Text Editor for Ruby
```

> ## Choosing a text editor

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Choosing a Text Editor
```

It may be a tough decision, as a programmer, to choose a text editor, since it will be your main tool to do your work, and you will use it every day in your work-life.

> Everybody has their favorite text editor, I have known people who use **Vim, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Atom**, and many others.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Everybody has their favorite text editor, I have known people who use **[Vim](https://www.vim.org/), [Notepad++](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/), [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/), [Atom](https://atom.io/)**, and many others.
```

> I tried different text editors in my career, always looking for the perfect one. At first, I started with Sublime Text, later the pretty UI of Atom hooked me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I have tried different text editors in my career and was always looking for the perfect one. At first, I started with Sublime Text, later the pretty UI of Atom hooked me, and for the last year I have been coding with **Visual Studio Code**.
```

I was enjoying Atom, but in some cases, my computer at the time couldn't handle it very well and it was getting a bit laggy to open the text editor or work with it. So a friend of mine told me that maybe Visual Studio Code could fit my needs, and he was right.

> # I use Visual Studio Code too! Tell me about its extensions

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Visual Code Studio Extensions
```

## [GitLens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens)

This extension includes a lot of cool functionalities of Git in Visual Studio Code: "GitLens simply helps you **better understand code**" says Eric Amodio, the creator of the extension.

I love Gitlens because it allows me to detect who wrote the code that I am reading, and this is really useful because when I have doubts about the code, I know who to talk to.

**Features:**

- An unobtrusive current line blame annotation at the end of the line with detailed blame information accessible via hovers
- Authorship code lens showing the most recent commit and # of authors to the top of files and/or on code blocks
- A status bar blame annotation showing author and date for the current line
- On-demand gutter blame annotations, including a heatmap, for the whole file

> - On-demand gutter heatmap annotations to show how recently lines were changed, relative to all the other changes in the file and to now (hot vs. cold)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- On-demand gutter heatmap annotations to show how recently lines were changed, relative to all the other changes in the file (hot vs. cold)
```

- Format support via RuboCop, Standard, Rufo, and RubyFMT
- Semantic code folding support
- Semantic highlighting support
- Basic Intellisense support

![VSCode Ruby](images/vsrubycode.png)

## [Ruby Solargraph](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=castwide.solargraph)

Another **vital** extension if you are a Ruby developer, which gives Visual Studio Code some features that can be found in IDE's like "Go to definition" for classes, modules, and methods. Also provides documentation and code completion. If you are learning Ruby, this extension will help you a lot.

**Features:**

- Context-aware suggestions and documentation for the Ruby core
- Detection of some variable types and method return values (e.g., String.new. returns String instance methods)
- Identification of local, class, and instance variables within the current scope
- Find references and rename symbols (experimental as of solargraph gem v0.22.0)
- Support for gems
- Near-complete support for the Ruby core and stdlib
- Partial support for Ruby on Rails

![Ruby Solargraph](images/rubysolargraph.gif)

## [ruby-rubocop](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=misogi.ruby-rubocop)

> Having RuboCop configured in your ruby project will help you to maintain the quality of the code, especially if your project is being developed by a team. This extension will let you autoformat and correct your code basing it the directives written in the .rubucop.yml file. With only a key shortcut your code will be formatted in a second, is fast, is good, is an **essential** extension.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Having RuboCop configured in your ruby project will help you maintain the quality of the code, especially if your project is being developed by a team. This extension will let you autoformat and correct your code basing it the directives written in the .rubucop.yml file. With only a key shortcut your code will be formatted in a second, it's fast, it's good, it's an **essential** extension.
```

**Features:**

- Lint by executing the command "Ruby: lint by rubocop" (cmd+shift+p and type command)
- Auto invoke when saving file
- Auto correct command "Ruby: autocorrect by rubocop"

![Ruby Solargraph](images/rubyrubocop.gif)

## [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)

This extension will help you to format the code of Javascript, HTML, CSS, JSON, and many more files. Is simple and quick, is not as configurable as other code-formatter extensions.

**Features:**

- Supports many languages
- You press save and code is formatted
- No need to discuss style in code review
- Saves you time and energy

## [VSCode Great Icons](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons)

> A very simple one, adds icons to your files and it personally helps me a lot to know instantly which kind of file I'm seeing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A very simple one, adds icons to your files and it personally helps me a lot to know instantly which kind of file I'm viewing.
```

![VSCode Great Icons](images/vscodegreaticons.jpg)

> # I&#39;ve been using atom and now I switched to Visual Studio Code, I&#39;m a bit lost

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Switching from Atom to Visual Studio Code
```

> I fully understand you, I miss so much the Atom shortcut keymap when I made the switch, but here is your salvation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I fully understand you, I missed the Atom shortcut keymap so much when I made the switch, but here is your salvation.
```

## [Atom Keymap](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.atom-keybindings)

> This extension ports popular Atom keyboard shortcuts to Visual Studio Code and helps a lot making easier the switch between both code editors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This extension ports popular Atom keyboard shortcuts to Visual Studio Code and helps to make the switch between code editors a lot easier.
```

## [Atom One Dark Theme](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=akamud.vscode-theme-onedark)

> And the last extension that I will share with you is an aesthetic one, when I started using Visual Studio Code I missed the theme that Atom has, so this extension fix that problem for me.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
And the last extension that I will share with you is an aesthetic one, when I started using Visual Studio Code I missed the theme that Atom provides, so this extension fixed that problem for me.
```

# Conclusion

> These are my favorite extension for Visual Studio Code at the moment that I'm writing this. I hope that they help you to improve your experience using this famous code editor and please feel free to comment below this article if you have any other extensions recommendation!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These are currently my favorite extensions for Visual Studio Code. I hope this famous code editor will help you improve your experience. Please feel free to comment below if you have any other extension recommendations!
```
